---
layout: portfolio_entry
title: Key Rack
description: "a handmade key rack made from keys. Featured on MAKE Zine website and frontpage of reddit"
link: https://imgur.com/a/bwbGH
images:
- diy-keyrack-1.jpg
- diy-keyrack-2.jpg
thumbnail: diy-keys-sm.jpg

categories:
- projects

---


*This is a key rack made from a handful of old keys.* I like reusing materials, so I took some scrap wood, the old keys and made this keyrack-made-from-old-keys.

## Tools & Materials

### Tools

 * Table vice
 * Hammer
 * Handsaw
 * Sandpaper
 * Soldering iron

### Materials
 * Scrap wood
 * Old keys
 * Contact cement, or some other strong glue


## How was this made?

### 1. Bending the keys
It started by clamping a key in a vice and slowly hammering until it bent into the shape of a hook. Keys can be brittle, especially if it's cold where you're working. I broke a few keys in the process. If I were to do this again, I might use a torch to heat the keys before hammering, which would make the keys more malleable and more likely to bend instead of break.

### 2. Burning the wood
With the soldiering iron with a thick tip, I burned the letters "Keys" and an outline onto the wood. It took a couple passes with the soldiering iron to make it appear as a stark line.

### 3. Assembling
Originally I was planning to use the holes that already exists in the keys to bolt the bent keys onto the wood. This didn't turn out as well as I was hoping--The first version didn't stay together very well. After some trial-and-error, I switched to using contact cement glue to adhere the keys to the wood. I was originally concerned that the glue wouldn't be able to hold the weight of the keys, but it has held up alright.

## Coverage
The key rack was [featured on MAKE magazine's website](http://makezine.com/2012/02/06/key-rack-from-bent-keys/) after hitting [the frontpage of reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/DIY/comments/pbayr/heres_a_key_rack_that_i_made_out_of_old_keys/). The keys have been viewed somewhere around 70,000 times. I've also seen the photos pop up on DIY and craft blogs.

## Can I buy one from you?
No, but you could make your own.
