---
layout: portfolio_entry
title: COK.net
description: "Compassion Over Killing is a national organization focused on exposing and campaigning against animal cruelty on factory farms. Received over 1 million hits since launch."
link: http://cok.net
images:
- cok-dot-net-sm.jpg
thumbnail: cok-dot-net-sm.jpg
categories:
- projects

---

*campaign site for **Compassion Over Killing***

This Wordpress-powered website is the main site for [Compassion Over Killing (COK)](http://cok.net), a national advocacy organization dedicated to exposing cruelty to farm animals using undercover investigations and high-impact corporate campaigns. Since I launched it, COK.net has received over 1M views and, as a result of Compassion Over Killing's hard-hitting investigations, the site been referenced dozens of times by international press.

## Modernizing tech & design

COK has been very effective at attracting media attention for their investigations that expose cruelty on factory farms and at winning corporate campaigns that improve conditions for animals. But their tech hadn't kept pace with the organization's growth. In 2013, I joined the team as director of technology with the goal of modernizing the tech & design. I threw out their server, switched to cloud-hosted products, and revamped COK.net, their flagship website. The site is used to announce all of their breaking investigations, solicit donations, and ask supporters to  join their email lists. Moving the site into a content management system so campaigners could more easily update pages has been had a big impact on their staff's ability to be effective and productive.

## Links
 * [COK.net](http://COK.net)

## Tools used

 * Bootstrap
 * PHP
 * Wordpress
 * JavaScript
 * jQuery
